I used to get complaints about the books
in the back my video used together you
see a hate mail that I was just putting
the books on on camera to seem
intelligent when I wasn't and right now
in the background 100% fake Booker II
being shown off on the lower level
that's my my girlfriend's Chinese
language textbook the textbook my
girlfriend learning to use journeys and
then above it is a book I hate and
resent a real disappointment it's
through sit at ease but it's it's the
landmark edition of Thucydides which in
my opinion is a real ripoff edition of
tu savais says of showing off of course
if I just turned the camera this way
there'd be a whole stack of books
showing on on the other part of my desk
here
oh great lighting tech whatever okay
perfect
that's just that's just the way I wanted
it look guys um I just wrapped a video
long long video talking about
circumcision and five or six different
intersecting ethical and political
issues related to Western cultural
attitudes were circumcised circumcision
progress of scientific knowledge etc etc
and all of them have parallels with
veganism the issue the most important
issue I left out of that video which was
spontaneous and unscripted just like
this video I'm doing now no prep etc etc
no edits um what I left out there was
the question of the separation of church
and state and that's a really
interesting important issue that is part
of the approach of this guy Eric Oh God
what's the name Eric clapper I have an
extensive staff of interns here Thank
You videos thank you for your
fact-checking intern Eric Klopfer Eric
Lauper does draw attention to the fact
that part of the problem United States
of America in contrast to some other
countries other cut he calls more
enlightened countries in Northern Europe
is the tradition the separation of
church and state separation church and
state as a concept and as an
actual set of laws standards of practice
and principles impacts organizing
activism on every level in every way not
just for some like circumcision also
something like veganism many other
issues we might want to engage with the
American tradition is really peculiar
because it emerged out of more than a
century of debate in England that was
punctuated by the English Civil War now
the English Civil War sorry I just
mention this Americans will always talk
about Puritans and Puritanism and
normally in the context of American
history the Puritans are described as
being sort of dissident intellectuals
who opposed the status quo in England
and who were escaping as some kind of
persecuted minority in England you'd
actually say the Puritans are
represented in American history kind of
parallel to Jews escaping persecution in
Spain with the Spanish Inquisition as if
this was a persecuted religious minority
now of course there's some truth to that
like most historical fictions but that's
incredibly misleading the real
experience the people in England had
with the Puritans was precisely that the
the Puritans had taken over political
power briefly but with devastating
impact during the period of the English
Civil War so the Puritans went from
being a group that was maybe easy to
idealize or easy to glamorize to being
hated and feared and presented so give a
couple examples really quick to to flesh
this out it's very easy to idealize the
notion that the government should not
have control over prayer that there
shouldn't be a standardized book of
Prayer printed by the government and
then forced upon the people of all of
England now you can make a rational
argument for that whether you're an
atheist or a true believer or
what-have-you it's very easy to present
a philosophical political argument that
makes this sound look like like you know
very straightforward debate to win
but the actual experience of the
Puritans abolishing the English Book of
Common Prayer was so disastrous so
oppressive and so terrible what the
Puritans did with popular Christianity
in England which included by the way
banning Christmas banning Easter banning
all of the popular ceremonies and
festivals getting rid of the English
Book of Common Prayer yes but also
replacing it with a horrible openly
elitist system of church services that
presumed to separate the people who were
going to go to heaven after they died
the people who were confirmed as among
the elect from the common run of man
really denigrating and insulting to
everyone made everyone's lives miserable
frankly in the integers that took over
it was so awful and also the enthusiasm
was so great that the common run of men
in England had demonstrated to them that
the state control of religion was not so
much something that was forcing people
to be more religious than they otherwise
would be but in England in those
centuries at that time it was of
anything kind of protecting the
indifferent mass of Englishmen of
moderately religious people from zealots
and enthusiasts and extremists and then
out of this came a unique discourse it's
this is a uniquely British discourse of
a politics of going back and looking at
the Old Testament especially the book of
Judges looking at and by the way this is
even found within the famous book
Leviathan by Thomas Hobbes inquiring
into what is the role of kingship and
government in the Old Testament in the
light of this historical experience and
coming to the conclusion that was very
influential but maybe just for a century
it didn't last that long that the other
nations of Europe had missed the point
of the Bible in that the Bible contained
within it a powerful criticism of
tyrannical Kings who sought to control
religion
and that instead what they ought to have
is not quite a democracy of faith but
the freedom for different small
Protestant groups to set up and operate
their own churches etc etc during the
period of what's called the the
dictatorship in England so this period
after the English Civil War this was
debated extensively and the conclusions
that came to were dissatisfactory to
everyone home but there was a long
struggle of the Puritans within England
in which they made themselves and their
ideas incredibly unpopular and it's true
many of them not I have no idea what
percentage of a significant number of
Puritans escaped to America where their
ideas didn't meet with the same
resistance and when there was just some
more empty space for them to unpack
their ideas and set up their own ideal
idealized communes and communities and
miniature dystopias so those ideas got
to play themselves out in American
history but the the really lasting idea
that shaped the American Constitution
and this idea of church and state as it
exists in the United States today was
that the truest form of Christianity and
again this is not for the sake of
secularism not for the sake of the
progress of science it was for the
purity of Christianity self as they
conceived of it that the truest form of
Christianity was allowing these
congregations to set up their own set up
their own autonomous authorities
independent authorities now there is no
way for me to express to you the
intensity of hatred that Puritans had
Puritans and many of these prostatitis
Tanisha P within the Anglican Church to
them any kind of structured higher
authority like this was recreating
Catholicism within the Protestant faith
faith intense hatred of bishops intense
hatred of the government creating
something like the English Book of
Common Prayer a standard guide which
really included things like how
implicitly about how different kinds of
holidays were supposed to be celebrated
what
songs and dances you would do at
Christmas and Easter and other festivals
and of course also prayers and homilies
and things that were recited Janet in
church this was intensely hated and it
was a reaction against that and to
establish a very different idea of
Orthodoxy and religious purity that
separation of church and state was
created America now this explains why
tell me this was there any freedom of
religion for African American slaves
zero
was there any freedom of religion in the
United States of America for indigenous
Americans for Native Americans for the
mohawks for the Navajo for any of the
Algonquian groups on the East Coast
there you know sorry the LANAP a to give
a specific group that one app it were
indigenous to what's now Manhattan and
they're there now completely extinct by
the way did those peoples have you know
even religious toleration no this this
concept of separation of church and
state was if anything quite an
intolerant concept and anyone who's
familiar with American history knows
that a very difficult time even
accommodating the presence of papacy of
the Catholic Church it wasn't clear how
the stocks would be applied there so out
of this tradition now we have this idea
which is completely different from a
country like modern Germany so Germany
at present the concept is that a
religion is not allowed to preach or
practice principles that are contrary to
the fundamental tenets of Germany's own
constitution Germany's own Constitution
is normal for - as the basic law so that
there's a set of principles that are so
fundamental that that is where religious
freedom ends yeah so an example like
circumcision raises exactly those kinds
of questions are there some decisions
that churches are not allowed to make in
the name of church authority are there
some decisions that violate basic human
rights or even as basic ideas of decency
most modern Western countries I know
will not allow you to tattoo a child or
a minor right a tattoo is
in many ways less damaging than
circumcision genital mutilation etc
right but there's no real discourse and
debate about this it is completely
unacceptable to my knowledge all 50
states in the United States that the age
will differ but under age 16 or under
age 18 whatever the age is it's only
when the person receiving the tattoo can
take responsibility and consent to
getting the tattoo even if in your state
it's 14 I'm sorry I'm sure it does vary
by a few years here and there just like
the age of consent for other things does
you can only receive a tattoo beyond a
beyond a certain age it's egregiously
obvious that this same principle could
be applied to circumcision as opposed to
circumcision being being outlawed
absolutely I had a conversation recently
with with ask yourself Isaac on on
discord and this came up as an
illustration as an example in the
conversation wasn't the main the main
substance of the conversation but I
pointed out to him that the people we
were debating with who were debating
with antenatal ist's antenatal us their
argument under the delusion that they
knew some fact so simple and of such
overwhelming importance that if others
knew this fact they would immediately
agree with the argument presented they
come into conformity with the values
espoused by by their by their possession
and I pointed out now the particular
debate we're having I don't feel the
other side had any such facts to appeal
to you're talking about antenatal 'san
their particular view of life and
suffering and childbirth and their of
their philosophy of life faith basically
I don't think was based on a such
outstanding fact now it's tragic it's
truly tragic and heartbreaking to be in
that position when in fact you are it is
tragic to live in a community where
people are huffing glue and very often
it is children but let's say whether
it's minors huffing glue or elderly
people having a look if you see children
who
huffing glue inhaling glue fumes so that
they can feel a momentary pleasure of
the glue as it evaporates into their
their bloodstream and affects their
brain chemistry and you know this is
going to impair their intelligence for
the rest of their lives you know this
terrible impact there is a you know this
outstanding fact and you don't just want
to engage in public outreach and
conversation and the happy folk kind of
happy relaxed conversation you want to
make it illegal you want to use force
you want to intervene now you don't want
these young people to ruin their lives
or ruin the lines of lives of others and
you can say from your position if only
this person knew what I knew and and
this is the most tragic part and if only
they were thinking about this rationally
and with detachment the if they knew
what I know they wouldn't make this
decision they'd make a different
decision and now here's the really
dangerous tragic step and then you're
taking the dictatorial authoritarian
step of saying therefore I am gonna
presume to make that decision for you I
am gonna decide and I'm gonna go to the
government whatever it is maybe you live
in a democracy maybe you live in at the
station ship somebody an authority is
gonna decide you don't get to make this
decision anymore
we're gonna make huffing glue illegal
we're gonna stop you we're gonna use
force you know etc and you know I don't
have a word what is the threshold we
have to pass what is the standard before
we can take that step because we know
that about myriad things how do you feel
when in your community you see a
pregnant woman drinking red wine every
single glass of red wine she takes is
causing brain damage and other
developmental damage to the baby to the
unborn infant that she's pregnant with
and not only have I met and spoken to
people about this and it's it's real
hard to be detached and compassionate
and caring you know to not walk out do
you realize to say do you realize what a
terrible person you are do you realize
do you realize how you're utterly family
to take responsibility of the car
reaction oh let's do some let's to
submit let's do some you know
compassionate engaged outreach and
education here people it's it's a
challenge how do you feel when you talk
to a medical doctor a medical doctor who
is advising women that it's okay for
them to drink wine or drink beer say
three drinks a day that advice is still
commonly given and does unbelievable
harm does harm to the women themselves
it does harm to their unborn infant
sense into the next generation of human
beings in a country like Canada and by
the way basically brain damage caused by
alcohol during pregnancy is at epidemic
proportions in Canada ken doesn't the
list of countries where this is this is
a huge huge problem all right and you're
not in a position with these examples
where you can say you can be a reducer
terian you can just say oh well maybe if
you just cut down maybe if it's only
three glasses of wine maybe if you cut
it down to two glasses of wine nope you
can sit there with the you know
electrocardiogram with various forms of
scanners and you can you can watch the
woman drinks a glass of red wine and the
baby's heart rate goes down and the
impact is is obvious right or you could
eat sir you can do ultrasound and so on
- this stuff is not real mysterious and
yes you can look at peer-reviewed
medical literature bla bla bla and I you
can even find in anyway at some point
you know the culture of open-ended
discourse and debate of pluralism that's
ultimately we're talking about here I
mean the culture that the American
tradition of separation of church and
state tried to foster is not really one
of freedom of religious room it's one of
pluralism of having a plurality of
independent churches each one being just
as authoritarian as all the others each
one gets to write its own prayer book
define its own ceremonies decide who's
going to heaven who's going to hell and
if you don't like it you can choose not
to donate money to this church you can
donate money to that church instead
right and yet we come up against these
horrid facts that make it impossible for
us to be plura
make it impossible for us to be
congenial and flexible
and accepting and say oh well everyone
gets to make up their own minds right
you're allowed to have your own beliefs
but you're not allowed to have your own
facts this is what makes it so terrible
to deal with examples like circumcision
and the lifelong consequences that has
for an infant examples like fetal
alcohol syndrome women who are pregnant
drinking alcohol
examples like the use of myriad
mind-altering drugs that have long-term
impact on your brain and I hate to tell
you this guys it's not just party drugs
it's not just cocaine it's not just
marijuana anti-psychotic drugs
anti-anxiety medications antidepressants
these could have unbelievably terrible
term consequences for your cognitive
function and they're used on an epidemic
scale what do what do you want to say
male circumcision Mass General mutilate
mutilation is also an epidemic sale and
yes for us as vegans if you are vegan if
you've even thought about the ecological
ethical and health consequences of where
food comes from for the billions of
human beings who populate this planet
relying on many billions more of animals
living on a concrete floor in a steel
cage until the day their throats are cut
and their blood pours through a metal
grille on the floor to be collected and
desiccated and turned into fertilizer
powdered blood in bags we live in a
world full of these hard facts that make
that culture of pluralism impossible and
what we ultimately have to look to
government to be responsible for what is
in our best interests despite what we
want people want to continue tribalistic
traditions that involve mutilating their
children perhaps in some examples
tattooing their children much less
harmful but another case where the long
arm of the law intervenes in parental
authority
we have the government intervening in
all of these things with the
inevitability of a can of tomato soup
rolling down a staircase from my
perspective if you live in a Democratic
Society it is only a matter of time and
a question of how much tomato soup is
gonna leak out of this can how much
blood is going to be spilled how much
harm is going to be done how many lives
are going to be ruined before you make
the hard decisions to make these things
illegal to have those legal reforms and
the heartbreaking thing as an activist
as someone trying to do public education
and outreach is that you know the
consequences you know that they can't
wait I reach out to people with a kind
of love because I choose to pretend that
even if they've done terrible things in
the past they have the potential to do
something positive in the future I
choose to behave as if I judge them not
by their past actions but by their
potential to do good in the future in
many ways I despise the whole history of
the British Empire it's despicable
the British Empire was built on slavery
in one era it was built on genocide in
another and it was built on opium
trading and another era still it's
unbelievable but when I look today at
the societies that the collapse of the
British Empire produced the United
States Canada Australia etc I see a lot
of potential I see a lot of potential to
do good just in the next 20 years in the
next 50 years we can turn this around
guys we can take this society and we can
lead the way on important issues like
veganism like circumcision like human
rights like democracy we can lead the
way on these issues even though they're
in no way part of our culture
illegal and political tradition I'll say
that again even though they are in no
way a part of our legal cultural and
political tradition in the same sense
that gay marriage and gay rights were
not a part of our legal and cultural
tradition until one day they were in the
21st century
that's our struggle I hope you'll join
me about the sale